Just before we make our hiker's watch there is one technique that we're going to need that we haven't
covered yet and that is working out a user's address from their location.
This is known as reverse geocoding geocoding itself being the process of going from an address to a
pair of coordinates.
And we're going the other way.
So we're going to be reverse geocoding here.
It's pretty easy today and I'm going to set it up just here in the on location changed of our location
listener.
So we're going to create a geocoder which we'll call geocoder.
And this is going to be a new geocoder and we need a context so we can use the application context for
this because we're doing it in the context of the application and then we need a locale which is a format
for the address.
So if we talk locality you can say we've got a range of different options that we can take then.
So as addresses take different formats in different parts of the world in different parts of the world
we can choose which one we want or we can just use get default to use the locale of the user which is
usually what we're going to want to do.
And now we're going to create a list and this is going to be a list of addresses.
We want the Android location address that and also put the list class and Ah-Q this list addresses.
And we're going to get the addresses from our geocoder and again to get them from a location so we can
use any location we like here.
But we want to use the user's current location.
So we're going to use location don't get latitude and location don't get long edgy.
And then we need to specify how many results we want.
You can see this is a list.
So it may well be the case that this returns more than one address.
Usually we are only interested in one of the addresses so we'll just go for one and you can see we've
still got an error here.
That's because there's a chance that this will fail so we'll surrounded by try and catch just in case
if there are no addresses or if this isn't a valid latitude longitude for example and this will fail.
So that's what our try and catch is for.
So then we'll do a check to see if we've got something back.
So I will check for list addresses not being No.
And also taking that we've actually got a value.
So we'll look for addresses dot sites and check that that is greater than zero or
so we need to do this check first because if left addresses is no then trying to find the size of it
it will give us an error.
So we're checking first that it's not now and then that we have a value returned in it.
And then if we do we'll just lock that to the Lokes
or call it place info and then just take a quick look.
So this is list addresses and then we want to get the first item in the array which will be the only
item in the array because we specified that we only wanted one address returned.
So we'll get zero.
And then if we have a low key you can see it knows what type it is say right there all the different
addressed bits and pieces that we could use if we wanted.
For now I'll just put the whole thing to a string and we'll take a look and see what it looks like.
OK.
So it's as simple as that.
While that's running I'll just find a location.
So I want to put in a latitude and longitude that will actually give me an address so I'll just look
for a place in London and they began.
In fact I've got a pair of coordinates right there so we'll use those.
I'm sure that they will give me a valid address
can say over to our
emulates the
put these in and they should restart.
There we go.
And then we'll click send.
That should take us to London on the map.
As well as
showing us the address in the logs.
And there we go.
So now just about in London and let's have a look in Andheri studio Lokes.
There we go.
So we've got all that address info.
Right.
So let's just change the location slightly.
So if we change the latitude 52 you for example just to see another address
and there we go.
So now I've got a quick challenge for you to extend this.
Can you take the information from the address and display it in the app as a toast in a nice address
format.
Street number street name town county or state if possible postcode zip code and then country.
So all the information that we would put on a standard address over at.
All right.
How would you manage that.
I'm just going to change the latitudes once more to give us as clear as possible an idea of how the
address is returned.
So here you can see we've got the address lines that we can use and we've also got the feature which
is essentially the number on the road.
And then we've got the admin area submarine sub admin area.
Those are now pretty much all of the addresses we've looked at so far so I'm more or less going to ignore
those.
And we've got a locality or town the thoroughfare which is the road name and then postal code or zip
code and then Country Code country name.
So let's see if we can create a string containing all of those
as we saw before we can use list addresses get there and then
we can use get to get any of these features.
So is dancing with the number.
The vote number.
You'll notice that the thoroughfare is the name and the road number is actually the sub thoroughfare.
So I will start with that and we'll create a string for our address which will initially be an empty
string and then I'm going to check to see if
my sub theraphy is not.
No.
Then we'll add it to the string.
So address plus equals and then I'll just copy and paste that
and then we'll want a space at the end of that.
So that will take address and append the sub thoroughfare to it.
We want to do the same thing for the thoroughfare itself.
Down there somewhere.
So I would check to make sure that that's not now.
Otherwise we could have problems if we try and add it to our address
and we go
and then we'll put
a coma and the space at the end of that.
And now I think you get the idea so I'll copy and paste that.
This time we won't the town so the locality
we go.
And again we'll have a comma and a space at the end of that one and then we'll gets the postal code
again.
If there is one
and finally get the country
and I'll use the country name slightly friendlier than the code.
And this time we don't need a comma at the end.
All right.
So let's now just create outpost using create a new text and we'll use the address string and they will
show it.
All right.
So let's see that in action we now should get the address and the log still but more usefully will have
a text showing us the address or at least we will.
When I put on my SMB Carol and saying Here we go.
So let's take a look.
Change at fifty seven point ninety send that and there's outsized superb.
So I hope you manage that and especially bonus marks a few checks that each item within the address
was not now before you added it to the address string.
Great.
So now we can do reverse geocoding without Android apps.
It's time to build our hiker's watch.